Freshness Edit: dotnet content (#45322)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/asynchronous-programming/async-scenarios.md

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/async-scenarios/Program.cs" ID="UnblockingDownload":::

The code expresses the intent (downloading data asynchronously) without getting bogged down in interacting with `Task` objects.

### CPU-bound example: Run game calculation

In the next example, a mobile game inflicts damage on several agents on the screen in response to a button event. Performing the damage calculation can be expensive. Running the calculation on the UI thread can cause display and UI interaction issues during the calculation.

The best way to handle the task is to start a background thread to complete the work with the `Task.Run` method. The operation waits on the result by using an `await` expression. This approach allows the UI to run smoothly while the work completes in the background.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/async-scenarios/Program.cs" ID="PerformGameCalculation":::

The code clearly expresses the intent of the button `Clicked` event. It doesn't require managing a background thread manually, and it completes the task in a nonblocking manner.

## Recognize CPU-bound and I/O-bound scenarios

> The previous examples demonstrated how to use the `async` and `await` expressions for I/O-bound and CPU-bound work. An example was provided for each scenario to showcase how the code is different based on where the operation is bound. To prepare for your implementation, you need to understand how to identify when an operation is I/O-bound or CPU-bound. Your implementation choice can greatly affect the performance of your code and potentially lead to misusing constructs.

Reviewer: `async` isn't an expression, it's a modifier:

```suggestion
The previous examples demonstrated how to use the `async` modifier and `await` expressions for I/O-bound and CPU-bound work. An example was provided for each scenario to showcase how the code is different based on where the operation is bound. To prepare for your implementation, you need to understand how to identify when an operation is I/O-bound or CPU-bound. Your implementation choice can greatly affect the performance of your code and potentially lead to misusing constructs.
```

There are two primary questions to address before you write any code:

| Question | Scenario | Implementation |
| --- | --- | --- |
| _Should the code wait for a result or action, such as data from a database?_ | **I/O-bound** | Use `async` and `await` expressions _without_ the `Task.Run` method. <br><br> Avoid using the Task Parallel Library. |

> | _Should the code run an expensive computation?_ | **CPU-bound** | Use `async` and `await` expressions, but spawn off the work on another thread with the `Task.Run` method. This approach addresses concerns with CPU responsiveness. <br><br> If the work is appropriate for concurrency and parallelism, also consider using the [Task Parallel Library](../../standard/parallel-programming/task-parallel-library-tpl.md). |

Reviewer: Personally, I think the original reads better. In part, because it's possible that operations are a mix of CPU bound and I/O bound.

The following example shows how you might grab `User` object data for a set of `userId` objects.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/async-scenarios/Program.cs" ID="GetUsersForDataset":::

You can write this code more succinctly by using LINQ:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/async-scenarios/Program.cs" ID="GetUsersForDatasetByLINQ":::

Although you write less code by using LINQ, exercise caution when mixing LINQ with asynchronous code. LINQ uses deferred (lazy) execution. Asynchronous calls don't happen immediately as they do in a `foreach` loop unless you force the generated sequence to iterate with a call to the `.ToList()` or `.ToArray()` method. This example uses the <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.ToArray%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> method to perform the query eagerly and store the results in an array. This approach forces the `id => GetUserAsync(id)` statement to run and initiate the task.

## Review considerations for asynchronous programming

With asynchronous programming, there are several details to keep in mind that can prevent unexpected behavior.

### Use await inside async() method body

> When you use the `async` method, you must include an `await` expression in the method body. If the compiler doesn't encounter an `await` expression, the method fails to yield. Although the compiler generates a warning, the code still compiles and the compiler runs the method. The state machine generated by the C# compiler for the asynchronous method doesn't accomplish anything, so the entire process is highly inefficient.

Reviewer: "Must" is too strong. (This paragraph even nots that it does work):

```suggestion
When you use the `async` modifier, you should include one or more `await` expressions in the method body. If the compiler doesn't encounter an `await` expression, the method fails to yield. Although the compiler generates a warning, the code still compiles and the compiler runs the method. The state machine generated by the C# compiler for the asynchronous method doesn't accomplish anything, so the entire process is highly inefficient.
```

### Add "Async" suffix to asynchronous method names

The .NET style convention is to add the "Async" suffix to all asynchronous method names. This approach helps to more easily differentiate between synchronous and asynchronous methods. Certain methods that aren't explicitly called by your code (such as event handlers or web controller methods) don't necessarily apply in this scenario. Because these items aren't explicitly called by your code, using explicit naming isn't as important.

### Use 'async void' only with event handlers

> Events don't have return types and can't use and returned `Task` and `Task<T>` objects like other methods. When you write asynchronous event handlers, you need to use the `async void` statement for the handlers. Other implementations of the `async void` call don't follow the TAP model and can present challenges:

Reviewer: `async void` isn't a statement. It's the return type:

```suggestion
Event handlers must declare a `void` return types and can't use and returned `Task` and `Task<T>` objects like other methods. When you write asynchronous event handlers, you need to use the `async` modifier on a  `void` returning method for the handlers. Other implementations of `async void` returning methods don't follow the TAP model and can present challenges:
```

* Exceptions thrown in an `async void` method can't be caught outside of that method
* `async void` methods are difficult to test
* `async void` methods can cause bad side effects if the caller isn't expecting them to be asynchronous

### Use caution with asynchronous lambdas in LINQ

It's important to use caution when you implement asynchronous lambdas in LINQ expressions. Lambda expressions in LINQ use deferred execution, which means the code can execute at an unexpected time. The introduction of blocking tasks into this scenario can easily result in a deadlock, if the code isn't written correctly. Moreover, the nesting of asynchronous code can also make it difficult to reason about the execution of the code. Async and LINQ are powerful, but these techniques should be used together as carefully and clearly as possible.

> ### Wait on tasks in a nonblocking manner

Reviewer: Let's avoid "wait":

```suggestion
### Yield for tasks in a nonblocking manner
```

> If your program needs to wait on a task, write code that implements the `await` expression in a nonblocking manner. Blocking the current thread as a means to wait for a `Task` item to complete can result in deadlocks and blocked context threads. This programming approach can require more complex error-handling. The following table provides guidance on how to deal with waiting for tasks in a nonblocking way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your program needs the result of a task, write code that implements the `await` expression in a nonblocking manner. Blocking the current thread as a means to wait synchronously for a `Task` item to complete. Blocking for a task to complete can result in deadlocks and blocked context threads. This programming approach can require more complex error-handling. The following table provides guidance on how to deal with accessing results from tasks in a nonblocking way:
```

| Task scenario | Current code | Replace with 'await' |
| --- | --- | --- |
| _Retrieve the result of a background task_ | `Task.Wait` or `Task.Result` | `await`              |

> | _Wait for any task to complete_            | `Task.WaitAny`               | `await Task.WhenAny` |
> | _Wait for **all** tasks to complete_       | `Task.WaitAll`               | `await Task.WhenAll` |
> | _Wait for some amount of time_             | `Thread.Sleep`               | `await Task.Delay`   |

Reviewer: Let's change the wording in the first column as well:

```suggestion
| _Continue when any task completes_            | `Task.WaitAny`               | `await Task.WhenAny` |
| _Continue when **all** tasks complete_        | `Task.WaitAll`                 | `await Task.WhenAll` |
| _Continue after some amount of time_         | `Thread.Sleep`               | `await Task.Delay`   |
```

> ### Call the ValueTask() method

Reviewer: `ValueTask` is a type, not a method:

```suggestion
### Consider using the `ValueTask` type
```

> When an asynchronous method returns a `Task` object, performance bottlenecks might be introduced in certain paths. Because `Task` is a reference type, an object is allocated when the API is referenced. If a method declared with the `async` modifier returns a cached result or completes synchronously, the extra allocations can accrue significant time costs in performance critical sections of code. This scenario can become costly when the allocations occur in tight loops. For more information, see [generalized async return types](../language-reference/keywords/async.md#return-types).

Reviewer: word choices:

```suggestion
When an asynchronous method returns a `Task` object, performance bottlenecks might be introduced in certain paths. Because `Task` is a reference type, a `Task` object is allocated from the heap. If a method declared with the `async` modifier returns a cached result or completes synchronously, the extra allocations can accrue significant time costs in performance critical sections of code. This scenario can become costly when the allocations occur in tight loops. For more information, see [generalized async return types](../language-reference/keywords/async.md#return-types).
```

### Understand when to set ConfigureAwait(false)

> Developers often inquire about when to use the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ConfigureAwait(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> boolean. This API allows for a `Task` instance to configure the waiting (`await`) thread. When the boolean isn't set correctly, performance can degrade and deadlocks can occur. For more information, see [ConfigureAwait FAQ](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/configureawait-faq).

Reviewer: The context isn't necessarily equivalent to a thread:

```suggestion
Developers often inquire about when to use the <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task.ConfigureAwait(System.Boolean)?displayProperty=nameWithType> boolean. This API allows for a `Task` instance to configure the context for the state machine that implements any `await` expression. When the boolean isn't set correctly, performance can degrade or deadlocks can occur. For more information, see [ConfigureAwait FAQ](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/configureawait-faq).
```
